CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to GeoWeaver

Thank you for your interest in contributing to GeoWeaver! We're excited to welcome community contributions as we build this project together.

## Getting Started

### Issues

- Check existing issues before creating a new one
- Use the issue templates when reporting bugs or requesting features
- Be clear and provide as much information as possible

### Pull Requests

- Create a branch for your changes (don't commit directly to `main`)
- Make your changes focused and keep them to a single concern
- Follow existing code style and conventions
- Include tests for new functionality when possible
- Update documentation as needed

## Development Workflow

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch from `main` for your changes
3. Make your changes
4. Test your changes
5. Submit a pull request

## Code Style

- Follow the existing code style in the project
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Include comments for complex logic

## Commit Messages

- Use clear, descriptive commit messages
- Start with a brief summary line
- Add more detailed explanation if necessary
- Reference issue numbers when applicable

## Review Process

- All contributions require review before merging
- Be responsive to feedback and questions
- Be patient, as reviews may take some time

## Community Guidelines

- Be respectful and inclusive in all interactions
- Focus on constructive feedback
- Help others when you can

## Questions?

If you have any questions or need assistance, please open an issue or reach out to the project maintainers.

We appreciate all contributions, whether it's code, documentation, bug reports, or feature suggestions!

Commit message:

Cleanup repo and add tests

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to NaLaMap

Thank you for your interest in contributing to NaLaMap! We're excited to welcome community contributions as we build this project together.

## Getting Started

### Issues

- Check existing issues before creating a new one
- Use the issue templates when reporting bugs or requesting features
- Be clear and provide as much information as possible

### Pull Requests

- Create a branch for your changes (don't commit directly to `main`)
- Make your changes focused and keep them to a single concern
- Follow existing code style and conventions
- Include tests for new functionality when possible
- Update documentation as needed

## Development Workflow

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch from `main` for your changes
3. Make your changes
4. Test your changes
5. Submit a pull request

## Running Tests

Ensure you have the backend dependencies installed, then run:

```bash
cd backend
python -m pytest -v
```

## Code Style

- Follow the existing code style in the project
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Include comments for complex logic

## Commit Messages

- Use clear, descriptive commit messages
- Start with a brief summary line
- Add more detailed explanation if necessary
- Reference issue numbers when applicable

## Review Process

- All contributions require review before merging
- Be responsive to feedback and questions
- Be patient, as reviews may take some time

## Community Guidelines

- Be respectful and inclusive in all interactions
- Focus on constructive feedback
- Help others when you can

## Questions?

If you have any questions or need assistance, please open an issue or reach out to the project maintainers.

We appreciate all contributions, whether it's code, documentation, bug reports, or feature suggestions!
