frontend/tests/README.md, before:

# Frontend Test Suite

> Comprehensive E2E testing for the Nalamap frontend using Playwright

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm ci

# Install Playwright browsers
npx playwright install --with-deps

# Run all tests
npx playwright test

# Run specific test file
npx playwright test tests/leaflet-map.spec.ts
npx playwright test tests/chat-interface.spec.ts
npx playwright test tests/settings.spec.ts

# Interactive mode (recommended)
npx playwright test --ui

# Generate HTML report
npx playwright test --reporter=html
npx playwright show-report
```

## 📁 Test Structure

```
frontend/tests/
├── leaflet-map.spec.ts           # Map functionality tests (25+ tests)
├── chat-interface.spec.ts        # AI chat interface tests
├── settings.spec.ts              # Settings panel tests
├── fixtures/
│   ├── geocoding-fixtures.ts     # Mock geocoding data
│   ├── overpass-fixtures.ts      # Mock Overpass API data
│   └── ogc-services-fixtures.ts  # Mock WMS/WFS/WMTS/WCS data
└── README.md                      # This file
```

## 🧪 Test Coverage

### Leaflet Map Tests (leaflet-map.spec.ts)
- **Geocoding**: Germany, Brazil boundary rendering
- **Overpass**: Hospital/restaurant POI display
- **OGC Services**: WMS, WFS, WMTS, WCS layers
- **GeoJSON Normalization**: Various geometry formats
- **Layer Management**: Add, remove, toggle visibility
- **Bug Fixes**: Verified fixes for layer visibility issues
- **Performance**: Multi-layer rendering, memory usage

### Chat Interface Tests (chat-interface.spec.ts)
- AI conversation flow
- Message history
- Tool invocations

### Settings Tests (settings.spec.ts)
- User preferences
- Configuration updates

## 🎯 Running Specific Tests

```bash
# By test suite name
npx playwright test --grep "Geocoding"
npx playwright test --grep "Performance"
npx playwright test --grep "Bug Fix Verification"

# By test file
npx playwright test tests/leaflet-map.spec.ts

# Debug mode (step through test)
npx playwright test --debug

# Headed mode (see browser)
npx playwright test --headed

# Specific test by name
npx playwright test --grep "Brazil hospitals"
```

## 🔍 Debug & Troubleshooting

### Interactive Debugging
```bash
# Best for debugging - visual test runner
npx playwright test --ui

# Debug specific test
npx playwright test tests/leaflet-map.spec.ts --debug

# Record trace for analysis
npx playwright test --trace on
npx playwright show-trace trace.zip
```

### Common Issues

**Tests timeout**
- Increase timeout in `playwright.config.ts`
- Check dev server is running
- Use `--headed` to see what's happening

**Cannot find elements**
- Check selectors in test
- Use `await page.pause()` to inspect page
- Verify mock data is loading correctly

**Flaky tests**
- Run multiple times: `npx playwright test --repeat-each=3`
- Check for race conditions
- Ensure proper wait conditions

**Store/state issues**
- Verify Zustand stores initialize
- Check page loads correctly
- Review mock API responses

## 📊 Performance Testing

```bash
# Run performance test suite
npx playwright test --grep "Performance"

# Expected benchmarks:
# ✅ Multiple layers (5):      <3000ms
# ✅ Layer removal (3):         <1000ms
# ✅ Memory growth (3 layers):  <50MB
# ✅ Single layer bounds:       <2500ms
```

## 🔄 CI/CD Integration

Tests run automatically via GitHub Actions on every push/PR.

### View CI Results
1. Go to GitHub Actions tab
2. Select workflow run
3. Check `frontend-tests` and `frontend-performance` jobs
4. Download artifacts for detailed reports

### Run CI tests locally
```bash
CI=true npx playwright test
```

## 📈 Test Reports

### HTML Report (Recommended)
```bash
npx playwright test --reporter=html
npx playwright show-report
```

### Other Formats
```bash
# JSON output
npx playwright test --reporter=json > results.json

# JUnit XML
npx playwright test --reporter=junit

# GitHub Actions format
npx playwright test --reporter=github
```

## 🏗️ Writing New Tests

### Example Test Structure
```typescript
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test';

test.describe('Feature Name', () => {
  test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
    // Setup: navigate, mock APIs, etc.
    await page.goto('/');
  });

  test('should do something', async ({ page }) => {
    // Arrange
    const button = page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Click me' });
    
    // Act
    await button.click();
    
    // Assert
    await expect(page.getByText('Success')).toBeVisible();
  });
});
```

### Best Practices
- Use `data-testid` for stable selectors
- Mock external APIs consistently
- Keep tests independent (no shared state)
- Use descriptive test names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Test user workflows, not implementation

## 🐛 Known Issues & Fixes

### Layer Visibility Bug (FIXED)
**Issue**: Layers didn't appear until visibility was toggled off/on.

**Root Causes**:
1. Race condition in bounds fitting
2. Missing loading state
3. forceUpdate pattern causing re-renders

**Fixes Applied**:
- ✅ Consolidated bounds fitting logic
- ✅ Added loading state to prevent premature renders
- ✅ Replaced forceUpdate with stable styleKey

**Performance Improvements**:
- 66% faster layer rendering
- 75% reduction in re-renders
- 100% elimination of race conditions

## 📚 Additional Resources

### Playwright Documentation
- [Official Docs](https://playwright.dev)
- [Best Practices](https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices)
- [API Reference](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-playwright)

### Project-Specific
- Test fixtures in `fixtures/` directory
- Mock data structure examples
- CI configuration in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`

## ✅ Pre-Deployment Checklist

Before merging changes:

- [ ] All tests pass locally
- [ ] New features have test coverage
- [ ] No flaky tests (run multiple times)
- [ ] Performance within acceptable ranges
- [ ] No console errors in test output
- [ ] CI pipeline passes
- [ ] Manual smoke testing in browser

## 🎉 Success Criteria

Tests are passing when:
- ✅ All 25+ tests pass
- ✅ No console errors or warnings
- ✅ Performance metrics within thresholds
- ✅ CI pipeline completes successfully
- ✅ Manual testing confirms functionality

---

**Need Help?** Check test comments, review mock fixtures, or run tests in `--ui` mode for interactive debugging.

Commit message:

test and testfix with auth

frontend/tests/README.md, after:

# Frontend Test Suite

> Comprehensive E2E testing for the Nalamap frontend using Playwright

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm ci

# Install Playwright browsers
npx playwright install --with-deps

# Run all tests
npx playwright test

# Run specific test file
npx playwright test tests/leaflet-map.spec.ts
npx playwright test tests/chat-interface.spec.ts
npx playwright test tests/settings.spec.ts

# Interactive mode (recommended)
npx playwright test --ui

# Generate HTML report
npx playwright test --reporter=html
npx playwright show-report
```

## 📁 Test Structure

```
tests/
├── leaflet-map.spec.ts           # Map functionality tests (25+ tests)
├── chat-interface.spec.ts        # AI chat interface tests
├── settings.spec.ts              # Settings panel tests
├── fixtures/
│   ├── geocoding-fixtures.ts     # Mock geocoding data
│   ├── overpass-fixtures.ts      # Mock Overpass API data
│   └── ogc-services-fixtures.ts  # Mock WMS/WFS/WMTS/WCS data
└── README.md                      # This file
```

## 🧪 Test Coverage

### Leaflet Map Tests (leaflet-map.spec.ts)
- **Geocoding**: Germany, Brazil boundary rendering
- **Overpass**: Hospital/restaurant POI display
- **OGC Services**: WMS, WFS, WMTS, WCS layers
- **GeoJSON Normalization**: Various geometry formats
- **Layer Management**: Add, remove, toggle visibility
- **Bug Fixes**: Verified fixes for layer visibility issues
- **Performance**: Multi-layer rendering, memory usage

### Chat Interface Tests (chat-interface.spec.ts)
- AI conversation flow
- Message history
- Tool invocations

### Settings Tests (settings.spec.ts)
- User preferences
- Configuration updates

## 🎯 Running Specific Tests

```bash
# By test suite name
npx playwright test --grep "Geocoding"
npx playwright test --grep "Performance"
npx playwright test --grep "Bug Fix Verification"

# By test file
npx playwright test tests/leaflet-map.spec.ts

# Debug mode (step through test)
npx playwright test --debug

# Headed mode (see browser)
npx playwright test --headed

# Specific test by name
npx playwright test --grep "Brazil hospitals"
```

## 🔍 Debug & Troubleshooting

### Interactive Debugging
```bash
# Best for debugging - visual test runner
npx playwright test --ui

# Debug specific test
npx playwright test tests/leaflet-map.spec.ts --debug

# Record trace for analysis
npx playwright test --trace on
npx playwright show-trace trace.zip
```

### Common Issues

**Tests timeout**
- Increase timeout in `playwright.config.ts`
- Check dev server is running
- Use `--headed` to see what's happening

**Cannot find elements**
- Check selectors in test
- Use `await page.pause()` to inspect page
- Verify mock data is loading correctly

**Flaky tests**
- Run multiple times: `npx playwright test --repeat-each=3`
- Check for race conditions
- Ensure proper wait conditions

**Store/state issues**
- Verify Zustand stores initialize
- Check page loads correctly
- Review mock API responses

## 📊 Performance Testing

```bash
# Run performance test suite
npx playwright test --grep "Performance"

# Expected benchmarks:
# ✅ Multiple layers (5):      <3000ms
# ✅ Layer removal (3):         <1000ms
# ✅ Memory growth (3 layers):  <50MB
# ✅ Single layer bounds:       <2500ms
```

## 🔄 CI/CD Integration

Tests run automatically via GitHub Actions on every push/PR.

### View CI Results
1. Go to GitHub Actions tab
2. Select workflow run
3. Check `frontend-tests` and `frontend-performance` jobs
4. Download artifacts for detailed reports

### Run CI tests locally
```bash
CI=true npx playwright test
```

## 📈 Test Reports

### HTML Report (Recommended)
```bash
npx playwright test --reporter=html
npx playwright show-report
```

### Other Formats
```bash
# JSON output
npx playwright test --reporter=json > results.json

# JUnit XML
npx playwright test --reporter=junit

# GitHub Actions format
npx playwright test --reporter=github
```

## 🏗️ Writing New Tests

### Example Test Structure
```typescript
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test';

test.describe('Feature Name', () => {
  test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
    // Setup: navigate, mock APIs, etc.
    await page.goto('/');
  });

  test('should do something', async ({ page }) => {
    // Arrange
    const button = page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Click me' });
    
    // Act
    await button.click();
    
    // Assert
    await expect(page.getByText('Success')).toBeVisible();
  });
});
```

### Best Practices
- Use `data-testid` for stable selectors
- Mock external APIs consistently
- Keep tests independent (no shared state)
- Use descriptive test names
  - Add comments for complex logic

## 🔐 Authentication Tests

The authentication tests mock the signup, login, and current user endpoints so you do not need a real backend or database. See `authentication.spec.ts` for examples:
```bash
# Mock /api/auth/signup, /api/auth/login, and /api/auth/me
# Navigate to /signup or /login, fill the forms, submit, and assert redirect to /map
``` 
- Test user workflows, not implementation

## 🐛 Known Issues & Fixes

### Layer Visibility Bug (FIXED)
**Issue**: Layers didn't appear until visibility was toggled off/on.

**Root Causes**:
1. Race condition in bounds fitting
2. Missing loading state
3. forceUpdate pattern causing re-renders

**Fixes Applied**:
- ✅ Consolidated bounds fitting logic
- ✅ Added loading state to prevent premature renders
- ✅ Replaced forceUpdate with stable styleKey

**Performance Improvements**:
- 66% faster layer rendering
- 75% reduction in re-renders
- 100% elimination of race conditions

## 📚 Additional Resources

### Playwright Documentation
- [Official Docs](https://playwright.dev)
- [Best Practices](https://playwright.dev/docs/best-practices)
- [API Reference](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-playwright)

### Project-Specific
- Test fixtures in `fixtures/` directory
- Mock data structure examples
- CI configuration in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`

## ✅ Pre-Deployment Checklist

Before merging changes:

- [ ] All tests pass locally
- [ ] New features have test coverage
- [ ] No flaky tests (run multiple times)
- [ ] Performance within acceptable ranges
- [ ] No console errors in test output
- [ ] CI pipeline passes
- [ ] Manual smoke testing in browser

## 🎉 Success Criteria

Tests are passing when:
- ✅ All 25+ tests pass
- ✅ No console errors or warnings
- ✅ Performance metrics within thresholds
- ✅ CI pipeline completes successfully
- ✅ Manual testing confirms functionality

---

**Need Help?** Check test comments, review mock fixtures, or run tests in `--ui` mode for interactive debugging.
